 csell_REC_VIEW_TAG();

Q: What kind of thinking can only be done by writing?; 
A: Writing is not just a way to convey ideas, but also a way to have them. A good writer will almost always discover new things in the process of writing. And there is, as far as I know, no substitute for this kind of discovery. Talking about your ideas with other people is a good way to develop them, but even after doing this, you'll find you still discover new things when you sit down to write. There is a kind of thinking that can only be done by writing. 

Q: What does reading about something teach you?; 
A: Reading about something doesn't just teach you about the topic, but it also teaches you how to write. Writing is not just a way to convey ideas, but also a way to have them. A good writer will almost always discover new things in the process of writing. 

Q: What is the difference between thinking and writing?; 
A: A good writer doesn't just think, and then write down what he thought, as a sort of transcript. A good writer will almost always discover new things in the process of writing. And there is, as far as I know, no substitute for this kind of discovery. 

Q: What kind of problems can be solved without writing?; 
A: If you don't need to go too deeply into a problem, you can solve it without writing. If you're thinking about how two pieces of machinery should fit together, writing about it probably won't help much. And when a problem can be described formally, you can sometimes solve it in your head. 

Q: What is the importance of reading well?; 
A: You can't think well without writing well, and you can't write well without reading well. And I mean that last "well" in both senses. You have to be good at reading, and read good things. Audiobooks can give you examples of good writing, but having them read to you doesn't teach you as much about writing as reading them yourself. By "good at reading" I don't mean good at the mechanics of reading. You don't have to be good at extracting words from the page so much as extracting meaning from the words.